# credit-risk-classification

### Overview of the Analysis

* The purpose of this analysis is to build and assess a supervised machine learning model that determines whether a loan is at low or high risk of defaulting.

* Feature variables used to make predictions included: loan size, interest rate, borrower income, debt to income ratio, number of accounts, derogatory marks, and total debt.

* A binary target variable called 'loan_status' was determined. '1' indicated a loan at high risk for defaulting, while a '0' indicated a loan is healthy.

* To build the model, feature and target variables were split into training and testing sets(75% train/25% test). The model was fitted to the training dataset. Predictions were made using the feature testing set and results were compared to the target testing set.

* The model uses Logistic Regression to classify each loan as high-risk or healthy.

### Results

* Logistic Regression Model:

    * Accuracy: percentage of correctly predicted outcomes.
        * Full Model: 99% 

    * Precision: percentage of outcomes in each group that were true.
        * High-Risk: 85% 
        * Healthy: 99.7% 

    * Recall: percentage of true outcomes that were correctly predicted.
        * High-Risk: 91% 
        * Healthy: 99% 

### Summary

In summary, this model performs well at predicting a healthy loan. While this appears good, the extremely high accuracy, precision, and recall may be due to overfitting and more cross-validation should be done to assess this. 

This model is less capable of determining high-risk loans as seen in its 85% precision. Because high-risk loans are the outcome of importance in this case, I would not recommend using this model to predict whether or not a loan is at high risk of defaulting. Some ways to strengthen the model could be:
* Including more high-risk data in the training datasets.
* Using a different proportion to split the training and testing data.

### References

Starter code and data were generated by edX Boot Camps LLC
